README.md, before:

# The RetroBox android app

**Master build :** [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/master)  
**Dev build :** [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/dev.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/dev)

<a href="https://retrobox.tech/downloads">
    <img src="https://enlaps.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/get-it-on-google-play.png" alt="alt" width="200">
</a>

Download our app on the Google Play Store !

---

This app is, at this time, only avaible in french. We will add english support asap.

Compatible with android-api 18 to 29.

This app contains errors trackers, analytics & performance script, by using our app, you agree with the processing of this data. Lear more about privacy [here](https://retrobox.tech/privacy).

# Preview

Preview will be avaible when a release will be available on the store.

# Build and environment needed

### Software preparation

 To build our app you will need to install JDK 1.8 (can be found [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/javase-jdk8-downloads.html)) and [Ruby](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) installed on your computer. This app can be build on windows and linux without issue (just remove sudo before all commands for windows).

### Setup

1. Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/retrobox/android`
2. Install Fastlane with ```sudo gem install fastlane -NV ```
3. Add your env variables (see bottom)
4. Add the project to Android Studio

 ### Environment variables
 Please add the files to your project (see in the exemple file to know what to do)

 - .\\.env # Google Cloud Service account key & others things
 - .\keystore.properties # Private keys to sign app with the .jks certificate
 - .\api.key_gpc.json # Private api key for Google Play Console access
 - .\app\google-services.json # Firebase api key ([doc](https://firebase.google.com/docs/android/setup))
 - .\app\keystore_private.jks # Private android studio certificate ([doc](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing))

### Build

⚠️ Be aware, here are several types of build:  

- devDebug # Debug the dev version (log everything)
- devRelease # (we do not use this build)
- proDebug # Debug the release version (log everything)
- proRelease # The version who will be pushed to Google Play Store

Examples :  
- build_flavor -> debug or release
- build_type -> pro or dev

After adding all your env files, run :

- ```sudo bundle exec fastlane supply init```

This will synchronize with the GPC, all metadatas.

Next, just choose to the left tab "Build variants" the type of version you want to build in Android Sutdio, then run build.  
You can also use these commands :

- ```bundle exec fastlane assemble_build build_flavor:"YourBuildFlavor" build_type:"YourBuildType"```

- ```sudo ./gradlew build``` # This is a hard build, this will work, but we do not recommend to use it.

## Autonomous deploy explanation

### Fastlane ```.\fastlane```

We use Fastlane because is the easiest way to do CI/CD, this is a powerfull tool (and free !).

See more in `.\fastlane\README.md`.

### Circle CI ```.\.circleci\config.yml```

To use Circle CI put these variables in th env :

```ini
BUILD_FLAVOR=Pro
BUILD_TYPE=Release
GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY=raw json key
GOOGLE_PLAY_KEY=raw json key
KEYSTORE=convert to base64 'keystore_upload.jks' and put the raw output here
RELEASE_KEYSTORE=keystore
RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS=your alias
RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD=your password
RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD=your password
```

__License :__

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.

Commit message:

fix(ci): see bottom
fix(issues): error in readme
feat(env): add env variables in fastfile for slack & discord (yeah I removed the discord webhook)
feat(gradle): add build version (computed by a script)
fix(fastfile): beautify fastfile

README.md, after:

# The [RetroBox](https://retrobox.tech) android app 📱
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/retrobox/android?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/retrobox/android/issues) ![GitHub release (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/retrobox/android?style=flat-square)  
<br>
**Master build :** [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/master)  
**Dev build :** [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/dev.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/retrobox/android/tree/dev)  

<a href="https://retrobox.tech/downloads">
    <img src="https://enlaps.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/get-it-on-google-play.png" alt="alt" width="200">
</a>

Download our app on the Google Play Store !

# Infos ❕

This app is, at this time, only available in french. We will add english support asap.

Compatible with android-api 18 to 29.

This app contains errors trackers, analytics & performance script, by using our app, you agree with the processing of this data. Learn more about privacy [here](https://retrobox.tech/privacy).

# Preview 📷 

Preview will be avaible when a release will be available on the store.

# Build and environment needed 🔨 

### Software preparation

 To build our app you will need to install [JDK 1.8](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/javase-jdk8-downloads.html) and [Ruby](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) installed on your computer. This app can be build on windows and linux without issue (just remove sudo before all commands for windows).

### Setup

1. Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/retrobox/android`
2. Install Fastlane with ```sudo gem install fastlane -NV ```
3. Add your env variables (see bottom)
4. Add the project to Android Studio

 ### Environment variables
 Please add the files to your project (see in the exemple file to know what to do)

 - `.\\.env` # Google Cloud Service account key & others things
 - `.\keystore.properties` # Private keys to sign app with the .jks certificate
 - `.\google-play-key.json` # Private api key for Google Play Console access
 - `.\app\google-services.json` # Firebase api key ([doc](https://firebase.google.com/docs/android/setup))
 - `.\app\keystore_private.jks` # Private android studio certificate ([doc](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing))

### Build

⚠️ Be aware, here are several types of build flavours :  

- devDebug # Debug the dev version (log everything)
- devRelease # (we do not use this build)
- proDebug # Debug the release version (log everything)
- proRelease # The version who will be pushed to Google Play Store

Examples :  
- build_flavor -> `debug` or `release`
- build_type -> `pro` or `dev`

*[Only in the case you want to work with Fastlane]*  
After adding all your env files, run :

- ```sudo bundle exec fastlane supply```

This will synchronize with the GPC, all metadatas.

Before making a build you need to clean gradlew with : `./gradlew clean build`

Next, just choose to the left tab "Build variants" the type of version you want to build in Android Sutdio, then run build.  
You can also use these commands :

- ```bundle exec fastlane assemble_build build_flavor:"YourBuildFlavor" build_type:"YourBuildType"```

- ```sudo ./gradlew build``` # If you want to work with gradlew CLI.

## Autonomous deploy explanation 🔄

### Fastlane ```.\fastlane```

We use Fastlane because is the easiest way to do CI/CD, this is a powerfull tool (and free !).

See more in `.\fastlane\README.md`.

### Circle CI ```.\.circleci\config.yml```

To use Circle CI put these variables in th env :

```ini
BUILD_FLAVOR=Pro
BUILD_TYPE=Release
GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY=raw json key
GOOGLE_PLAY_KEY=raw json key
KEYSTORE=convert to base64 'keystore_upload.jks' and put the raw output here
RELEASE_KEYSTORE=keystore
RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS=your alias
RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD=your password
RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD=your password
```

__License :__

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.
